# mt01

## 1.
List in order the stages in the traditional engineering development process


## 2.
In requirements engineering, what is a prototype? What is the difference between a high-fidelity and low-fidelity prototype? What is the purpose of building a prototype?


## 3. 
Identify whether each of the following statements most typically defines a functional requirement, non-functional requirement, or design constraint.

**(a)** The system will produce the output in sorted order.

**(b)** The system must run on iOS and Android mobiel devices

**(c)** The system will have a pleasing user interface.

**(d)** The system will, on average, produce the answer within one second.

**(e)** The system will prevent unauthorized users from accessing the data.


## 4. 
Draw an entity-relationship diagram (EBD) to represent the following entities: album, song, and composer. Include both cardinality and modality in your relationships using the notation discussed in class. Briefly jsutify any assumptions.


## 5.
Briefly define the following terms related to object-oriented software engineering.

**(a)** object

**(b)** class

**(c)** inheritance


## 6.
Draw UML class diagrams to represent each of the following relationships

**(a)** Ponds have ducks

**(b)** Universities have classrooms

**(c)** Books have authors

**(d)** Authors wrtie books.


## 7.
In software architectural styles, it is typically the constraint that gives the style its advantages and disadvantages. For example. in a data-centric or client-server architecture, the constraint that the clients are independent and communicate only through the server allows the additional or removal of clients to be handeled easily but also means that the server is the central point of failure. For the following two architetural styles, identify its constraint and describe how it gives the style its advantages and disadvantages.

**(a)** event-based

**(b)** layered


## 8.
Two important design characteristics are coupling and cohesion.

**(a)** Define coupling and explain why low coupling is important.

**(b)** Define cohesion and explain why high coheision is important.