## Design Rationale

We decided to use a client-side programming model due to the fact that JavaScript and HTML/CSS allow us to fulfill each requirement while maintaining simplicity and efficiency.  These languages permit us to be as creative or as basic as we want, while still providing high functionality to our website. Our decision to make it a single-page application is so the user does not have to waste time sifting through multiple windows just to fill out our form.

Due to design constraints given by the Design Center, we used PHP as the language of choice for the server part of the project. We created the server to act like a REST Api as it creates low coupling between the server and client. As well, it is an industry standard that everyone should be able to follow. For communication between the two, we decided to use JSON since it is very easy to follow and read. It is as well a new standard that is growing in popularity as a replacement for XML in the realm of server

The students will be able to manually save their form at any point by clicking our "save" button.  Clicking this button will save a copy of their current form to our server.  This allows the student to never lose their updated form while avoiding clutter in their Downloads or Desktop with multiple versions of their form.  This method also grants advisors access to all their students current forms for feedback without the need for tedious scheduling in person. In addition, an electronic copy of the form on our server will ensure the student that their progress will be safe and saved.

When the student wants to send a link of their current form to their adviser, the link will be presented in a pop-up window. We realized that the student could locally save the form as a pdf and then send that pdf via email to their adviser. However, with this link they will only need to keep track of saving their most current form before asking their adviser to check their form. This prevents the possible clutter of multiple forms saved upon their computer. Thus, a cleaner way of keeping track of their progress is presented in a simple, distinct link. 

We decided to go for a single-page form because it closely mirrors the current solution. Our goal was to clarify some sections of the current solution, but maintain a similar layout for those who may be more accustomed to a single-page form. In this way, we make the experience for the user easier in regards to filling out the form, while also providing the advisors with some familiarity when viewing the layout of our form. In addition, we will be utilizing buttons, check boxes, and radio buttons, so the user's experience is as fluid as possible and little to no confusion occurs. Each section will provide thorough information regarding what the student must do in order to sufficiently complete the form for submission. We will even make the lives of the students easier by providing, when necessary, hyperlinks to resources that will advise them which courses have been approved for certain sections.