## Chapter 1. Introduction

Transitioning into a graduate program is distinct for each person due to the fact that people hold various educational backgrounds. Graduate students may include those coming straight from their undergraduate studies, or those returning from a few years in the workplace. These students are asked to compose a unique pathway of courses to their graduation, which is something that should not take long to create.  Unfortunately, the current process provided does not live up to this standard.

Currently, Santa Clara University has a process for those students by submitting the Program of Studies form in paper, scheduling a meeting with the academic advisor, and validating the document. The program of studies form contains sections for each of the graduate requirements: SCU Core, foundation classes, etc. Though these sections provide adequate guidance towards one’s graduate career, several questions may arise when filling out the form. For instance, although certain classes may fulfill requirements under different sections, the form does not differentiate when it is allowed. In addition, the document gives insufficient information about how many units one can transfer to SCU based on whether or not the classes were taken at Santa Clara University. Coupled with these problems, the form also calls for a tedious look-up of approved courses in the graduate bulletin. Due to the possible confusion this form may cause, applicants will have to fill out many documents, wasting paper, as well as making it tedious for the faculty members to constantly review these forms.

To prevent the issues mentioned above, we propose a web-based solution that will allow the user to complete an electronic form and receive feedback once it has been submitted online. To save the students’ time looking for courses that will satisfy their graduation requirements, we will provide a link to the electronic graduate bulletin for that year, which then can be easily searched. Our solution will also accommodate for both transfer and Santa Clara undergraduate credits equally and will supply accurate and useful information about transfer credits that will contribute to the fluidity of the form. Applicants will also be able to save their most recent form in the case that they have to make changes afterwards. Advisors will have digital access to their advisees’ forms, thus allowing the students to receive instant feedback from their advisors. If applicants also wish to meet with a faculty member in person, we will provide the form in a printer-friendly format. The form will immediately detect any discrepancies, such as unapproved courses or incorrect transfer credits, and will prompt the user to correct these errors. Our solution will in turn save time for both the student and the advisor, as well as diminish human errors which may prevent the student from taking the wrong classes as well as not graduating on time.
